Add type system documentation (#3376)
enso-org/enso: docs/types/types.md

# A note on conventions

> Due to two things that feel like 'primes' popping up in conversation below, we've chosen to denote one with 'x.type' and the other with 'Code x'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to two things that feel like 'primes' popping up in the conversation below, we've chosen to denote one with 'x.type' and the other with 'Code x'.
```

# `type` declarations and `type` elaboration

We shall have one keyword for defining new types.

```
type Foo x y z
```

> This creates an Atom constructor named 'Foo' and allows us to talk about the named fields x y and z.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This creates an Atom constructor named 'Foo' and allows us to talk about the named fields `x`, `y`, and `z`.
```

> Arguments to atom constructors can have defaults and explicit type signatures. There are some limitations on type signatures that will be 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Arguments to atom constructors can have defaults and explicit type signatures. However, there are some limitations on type signatures that will be 
```

discussed later.

> Nesting type declarations allows creation of subtyping relationships and allows us to express a concept

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nesting type declarations allow the creation of subtyping relationships and allow us to express a concept
```

like 'data' declarations in Haskell.

```
type List a
  type Nil
  type Cons (head : a) (tail : List a)
```

There is a distinction between terms of a type and the types themselves, one that it is sometimes beneficial to blur.

Types themselves are effectively represented as atoms and type constructors are atom constructors as well.

`List` plays multiple roles here. It acts as the type constructor which can be fed type arguments to build a fully saturated type:

```
Int : Type
List : Type -> Type
List Int : Type
```

> Given a type declaration, we desugar it into atoms and atom constructors, and define subtyping relationships in a two step process. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given a type declaration, we desugar it into atoms and atom constructors and define subtyping relationships in a two-step process. 
```

> First we gather all of the type variables used in its definition, and build a new type with those type variables expressed in sequence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we gather all of the type variables used in its definition and build a new type with those type variables expressed in sequence.
```

> Then if certain conditions are met, (e.g. the two have the exact same shape) we allow punning between the basic type constructor and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then if certain conditions are met (e.g. the two have the exact same shape), we allow punning between the basic type constructor and 
```

this elaborated type constructor. 

e.g.

```
type Book author title year
```

is equivalent to defining

```
type Book.type author_type title_type year_type
  type Book (author : author_type) (title : title_type) (year : year_type)
```

whereupon we notice that Book.type and Book are the same shape, and allow punning between `Book.type` and `Book`. 

```
Book "Jane Austen" "Pride and Prejudice" 1832 : Book.type Text Text Int
Book "Jane Austen" "Pride and Prejudice" 1832 : Book Text Text Int
```

The eagle-eyed among you might note that author_type and author are different field names, so this would actually elaborate out to

```
type Book.type author title year
  type Book (author : author) (title : title) (year : year)
```

where we are careful with lexical scopes to distinguish between the term level author and the type level author, enabling this pun.

In the List example

```
type List a
  type Nil
  type Cons (head : a) (tail : List a)
```

> this elaborates each of these type declarations and finds a couple of puns:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this elaborates on each of these type declarations and finds a couple of puns:
```

```
type List.type a = List a
type Nil.type = Nil
```

and one definition that emerges as not a pun:

```
type Cons.type a
  type Cons (head : a) (tail : List a)
```

# static methods and type formation

List serves double duty in the above. It acts as the type constructor for lists, so that `List Int` is a well formed `Type`, but it also
acts as the container holding its static methods.

> There are two forms of static methods that we are interested in in the long term. We'll classify them as 'normal' static methods and 'explicit' static methods. For now we're going to support 'normal' static methods as they are needed for 'from' conversions, but there is an opportunity to allow more with explicit statics later on for some uses involving meta-programming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two forms of static methods that we are interested in in the long term. We'll classify them as 'normal' static methods and 'explicit' static methods. For now, we're going to support 'normal' static methods as they are needed for 'from' conversions. Still, there is an opportunity to allow more explicit statics later on for some uses involving meta-programming.
```

```
type Vector a
  type MkVec (unsafe_to_array: Array a) 
  static from (that : List x): Vector x = MkVec (Array.from that)
```

this internally elaborates to

```
type Vector a
  type MkVec.type a
    type MkVec (unsafe_to_array: Array a)
  ...
```

with the obvious subtyping relationship

```
MkVec.type a <: Vector a
```

> Similarly to the pun story above, when you have a single `type` statement contained in a parent `type` statement and the shape aligns, we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly to the pun story above, when you have a single `type` statement contained in a parent `type` statement, and the shape aligns, we
```

> should be willing to allow punning between them, eliminating the distinct `MkVec.type` here. This results a nice "obvious" usage pattern, where

Reviewer: ```suggestion
should be willing to allow punning between them, eliminating the distinct `MkVec.type` here. This results in a nice "obvious" usage pattern, where
```

> we aren't distinguishing between several vector types. The type of the module it lives in the type constructor, and the type of its individual constuctor that is limited to only holding arrays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we aren't distinguishing between several vector types. The type of the module lives in the type constructor, and the type of its individual constructor that is limited to only holding arrays.
```

> Use `Vector` itself as the place where the statics live allows for a convenient usage pattern:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `Vector` itself as the place where the statics live allows for a convenient usage pattern:
```

```
Vector.from [1,2,3] : Vector Int
```

where 'Vector' is playing double duty as a type constructor and as the bag of static methods.

```
Vec ([1,2,3].to Array) : Vector Int
```

> Since static methods live in the topmost atom _constructor_, this implies a constraint on type statements that contain statics. Namely that it has to pun with its own type. This translates to having no distinct type variables for each of its arguments. We may choose to relax this in the future, but by being overstrict right now we leave room for evolving the language spec, rather than risk users depending on bad behaviors we'd have to change later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since static methods live in the topmost atom _constructor_, this implies a constraint on type statements that contain statics. Namely that it has to pun with its own type. This translates to having no distinct type variables for each of its arguments. We may choose to relax this in the future, but by being overstrict right now, we leave room for evolving the language spec rather than risk users depending on bad behaviors we'd have to change later.
```
